README.md, before:

# CCSD in C++ with MPI Parallelization

This repository provides a C++ implementation of Coupled Cluster with Singles and Doubles (CCSD) for the HeH⁺ molecule, translated from the educational Python code published by Joshua Goings on his CCSD tutorial webpage.
The implementation closely follows the mathematical structure and loop organization used in Goings’ Python reference, enabling transparent comparison between the two versions.

## References

T. Daniel Crawford and Henry F. Schaefer III, “An introduction to coupled cluster theory for computational chemists,” *Reviews in Computational Chemistry*, vol. 14, pp. 33–136, 2007.

Original Python tutorial:
- J. Goings, “Coupled Cluster with Singles and Doubles (CCSD) in Python,” https://joshuagoings.com/2013/07/17/coupled-cluster-with-singles-and-doubles-ccsd-in-python/

## Overview

The code computes the CCSD correlation energy for HeH⁺ using:
- Custom 2D and 4D tensor containers
- JSON input via Jansson
- Optional MPI parallelization
- Direct implementation of the CCSD iterative equations

## Repository Structure

ccsd_code.cpp
include/
  ParameterClass.h
  ParameterClass_NoJson.h
  VectorsClass.h
  MpiClass.h
config.json

## Dependencies

- C++17 or newer
- OpenMPI
- Jansson library

## Compiling

With JSON:
mpic++ ccsd_code.cpp -o ccsd_code -ljansson

Without JSON:
replace ParameterClass.h with ParameterClass_NoJson.h
mpic++ ccsd_code.cpp -o ccsd_code

## Running

mpirun -np 4 ./ccsd_code

If you are developing on a laptop or a node with fewer available MPI slots than
you wish to test, add `--oversubscribe` to the `mpirun` invocation so OpenMPI
allows the extra ranks.

## Automated Regression Test

Build the executable and then run:

```
python3 tests/run_mpi_regression.py
```

The script executes `ccsd_code` with 2, 4, and 8 MPI ranks (using
`--oversubscribe` by default) and verifies that both the correlation and total
CCSD energies match the expected reference values. Adjust the process counts,
binary path, or tolerance with `--np`, `--executable`, and `--tol` if needed.

## Input Format (config.json)

{
    "dim": ...,
    "Nelec": ...,
    "orbital_energy": [...],
    "ENUC": ...,
    "EN": ...,
    "integrals": [[i,j,k,l,value], ...]
}

## License

Original C++ translation. Does not include Python code. MIT License.

Commit message:

Refactor build system: add Makefile and move documentation
- Add Makefile with configurable compiler, flags, and JSON toggle (USE_JSON=0)
- Update README with Make build instructions and `make test` target
- Remove redundant startup comments from ccsd_code.cpp (now documented in README)

README.md, after:

# CCSD in C++ with MPI Parallelization

This repository provides a C++ implementation of Coupled Cluster with Singles and Doubles (CCSD) for the HeH⁺ molecule, translated from the educational Python code published by Joshua Goings on his CCSD tutorial webpage.
The implementation closely follows the mathematical structure and loop organization used in Goings’ Python reference, enabling transparent comparison between the two versions.

## References

T. Daniel Crawford and Henry F. Schaefer III, “An introduction to coupled cluster theory for computational chemists,” *Reviews in Computational Chemistry*, vol. 14, pp. 33–136, 2007.

Original Python tutorial:
- J. Goings, “Coupled Cluster with Singles and Doubles (CCSD) in Python,” https://joshuagoings.com/2013/07/17/coupled-cluster-with-singles-and-doubles-ccsd-in-python/

## Overview

The code computes the CCSD correlation energy for HeH⁺ using:
- Custom 2D and 4D tensor containers
- JSON input via Jansson
- Optional MPI parallelization
- Direct implementation of the CCSD iterative equations

## Repository Structure

ccsd_code.cpp
include/
  ParameterClass.h
  ParameterClass_NoJson.h
  VectorsClass.h
  MpiClass.h
config.json

## Dependencies

- C++17 or newer
- OpenMPI
- Jansson library

## Compiling

### Using Make (recommended)

```
make
```

Variables are overrideable, so you can select different compilers or flags:

```
make CXX=mpicxx CXXFLAGS="-O3 -std=c++20"
```

JSON parsing is enabled by default (links against `-ljansson`). When building a
variant of the code that does not use JSON (e.g., while experimenting with
`ParameterClass_NoJson.h`), run:

```
make USE_JSON=0
```

### Manual compilation

With JSON:
mpic++ ccsd_code.cpp -o ccsd_code -ljansson

Without JSON:
replace ParameterClass.h with ParameterClass_NoJson.h
mpic++ ccsd_code.cpp -o ccsd_code

## Running

mpirun -np 4 ./ccsd_code

If you are developing on a laptop or a node with fewer available MPI slots than
you wish to test, add `--oversubscribe` to the `mpirun` invocation so OpenMPI
allows the extra ranks.

## Automated Regression Test

Build the executable and then run:

```
python3 tests/run_mpi_regression.py
# or simply
make test
```

The script executes `ccsd_code` with 2, 4, and 8 MPI ranks (using
`--oversubscribe` by default) and verifies that both the correlation and total
CCSD energies match the expected reference values. Adjust the process counts,
binary path, or tolerance with `--np`, `--executable`, and `--tol` if needed.

## Input Format (config.json)

{
    "dim": ...,
    "Nelec": ...,
    "orbital_energy": [...],
    "ENUC": ...,
    "EN": ...,
    "integrals": [[i,j,k,l,value], ...]
}

## License

Original C++ translation. Does not include Python code. MIT License.
